today on teach vidcom or comparing
fractions before we get started let me
give a shout out to Ben at each vid fan
for suggesting today's topic today's
topic is comparing fractions using the
benchmark of 1/2 so let's take a look at
these two fractions let's say we wanted
to know which is greater 3/4 or 2:8 a
really quick way to do this is by
thinking about 1/2 so we'll look at this
one we have to try to keep in mind all
right
is it greater than 1/2 or less than that
so we'll take a look at our denominator
which is 4 and then you look at your
numr and you say all right half of 4 is
2 is 3 greater or less than 2 well it's
greater then so it's going to be greater
than 1/2 we look at the two eights
1/2 of 8 is 4 is 2 greater or less than
before will it's less down so right away
we can tell just by using this venture
north of 1/2 that 3/4 is greater than 2
eggs let me show you that one more time
let's say we wanted to compare 512 or
6/10 to find out which one was greater
so why right away we'll say well if I
have 12 in my denominator half of 12 is
6 it's 5 greater or less than 6 it is
less than 6 and we take a look at this
one we say well half of 10 is 5 and 6 is
greater than 5 so we know right away
that this is the greater fraction so
using the benchmark of 1/2 finding out
if the numerator is greater than half or
less than half of the denominator can
help you quickly compare fractions and
find out which one's greater I hope the
today's topic comparing fractions were
helpful to you if it was then hit the
thumbs up button leave your questions
and ideas for new videos in the comments
section or send an email to staff at
teach vidcom and don't forget to tell
your friends about teach vidcom because
there are more great videos on the way
and we would say I just absolutely gave
you half equals that I don't know what I
was thinking